well there was more impassioned debate
today at an emergency session of the UN
General Assembly in New York when all
was said and done a resolution calling
for a humanitarian truce was passed now
that truce or that um resolution is not
binding it was drafted by the un's 22
Nation Arab group who point to the
failure of the security Council earlier
this week to take action Israel has
rejected the resolution so too the
United States whose Ambassador was blown
in her
objections it is outrageous that this
resolution fails to name the
perpetrators of the October 7th
terrorist attack
Hamas Hamas it is
outrageous another key word missing in
this resolution is
hostage these are omissions of evil and
they give cover to and they Empower
hamas's brutality and no member State no
member State should allow
that to
happen well since October 7th the United
States has quickly refocused its
attention onto the Middle East both
diplomatically and militarily on Friday
us war planes struck Targets in eastern
Syria that the Pentagon said were linked
to Iran's revolutionary guard us defense
secretary Lloyd Austin gave more details
saying these Precision self-defense
strikes are a response to a series of
ongoing and mostly unsuccessful attacks
against us Personnel in Iraq and Syria
by Iranian backed militia groups that
began on October 17th the United States
will not tolerate such attacks and will
defend itself its personnel and its
interests Bradley Bowman is a senior
director of the center on Military and
political power at the foundation for
defense of democracies he joins me from
Washington BR it's good to see you again
there's a lot to talk about to me what's
your reaction to these us strikes on
Iran proxy Targets in Syria what message
is Washington sending to
tyan I think the Biden Administration
was trying to uh reinforce and eroding
American deterrence I mean we have seen
more than 19 attacks on US forces in
Iraq and Syria in the last 10 days and I
think this Administration was at serious
risk of leaving the impression that uh
Iran and its Terror proxies could attack
our forces in a costree way so why would
they not continue and so I think this
was an effort uh clearly they said so
explicitly to send a message to Tran
that there would be costs and there
would be a response and that this
Administration is prepared to defend US
forces and US interests but there's
already reports that we've seen
subsequent attacks following these more
of Iran's proxies attacking our forces
so it remains to be seen whether this
attack was enough the strikes followed
what the White House called a direct
warning from President Joe Biden to
Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah aliani I
mean how big of a deal is
that you know it's good that the
president Express those warnings and
secretary defense Austin reiterated them
but I don't think the Islamic Republic
of Iran is particularly impressed by uh
communic and statements out of
Washington I think they're going to
better understand the language of force
unfortunately uh and this this attack
was a good step in that direction but
there were reports from people on the
ground nearby that uh there were a lot
of personnel leaving these sites uh
before the attacks came in I I I said in
the Washington Post earlier this week
that Syria was probably the right place
to respond it didn't take a rocket
scientist to figure that out and so
probably what we ended up hitting here
what we know we hit were weapons and
ammunition storage sites probably with
few folks in them and we also know that
these weapons from these sites were used
to attack US forces so here's a question
I hope Congress is asking how long did
this Administration know about these
sites and how long did they know that
weapons and Munitions from these sites
were being attacked or used to attack
our troops and how long did they wait to
to to hit them I I think that's a
serious question that I hope Congress
will be asking yeah weapons made in the
USA um this string of attacks in Iraq
and in Syria um what role are US troops
playing right now in these
countries right the primary purpose of
the 900 or so US troops in Syria and the
2,500 or so troops in Iraq is to keep
the Isis califate defeated by working by
with and through other people so Iran
and Russia and the Assad regime want US
forces out of Syria for a variety of
reasons but that would be a disaster it
would increase the chances that we would
re see a Resurgence in the Isis
caliphate what is the US position on
Israel's ground offensive especially
with us hostages in the mix I mean is
Washington trying to to to slow it down
I mean we've heard words to that effect
coming from the White
House the public position of the White
House appears to be that they support is
isel's right to defend itself after the
worst single day attack on Jews since
the Holocaust and they're also eager to
get all the hostages back and there
appears to be private conversations
about some permitting some sort of
window to permit that to happen but we
also know that Hamas would like to
string this out forever and avoid avoid
the day of justice for what they did on
October
7th what about the the the possibility
of urban Warfare going into Gaza I mean
that that has to be um a night nightmare
for for any commander for any general I
mean is that what the Israeli military
has before it right
now yes former US uh Commander General
David Petraeus with experience in Iraq
and Afghanistan has called uh the
mission set in front of the Israel
Defense Forces quote
fishlyn there because of uh hamas's use
of uh human Shields because of uh the we
they've had many many months if not
years to prepare they know the territory
better than Israelis we should expect
booby traps snipers improvised explosive
devices this will not be quick and will
not be easy depending on the scope of
Israeli objectives and before we let you
go if we look at the the big picture
here to what extent has the United
States been disengaging from the Middle
East and do you think that that
disengagement is over
now I think the United States has been
trying to reduce its military posture in
the Middle East for a long time there's
bipartisan consensus here that China is
the number one threat and we need to
strengthen our capabilities in the Indo
Pacific but completely withdrawing from
the Middle East something that never
happened and will not happen would be a
mistake because it'll allow small
problems to become bigger ultimately
requiring us to send more US troops back
to the Middle East unfortunately what
happens in the Middle East doesn't stay
there and core American interests are at
stake and I think these recent events
are a reminder to Washington of that
fact and Brett let me ask you we we've
got time for one more question there are
reports of the United States um trying
to get the Israelis to hold off on this
ground Invasion to give the us time to
get um better air defense technology
sent to the region what have you been
hearing the US announced a few days ago
that we were sending fad terminal high
altitude area defense uh batteries uh uh
battery singular to the Middle East and
Patriot battalions uh those are
fundamental because I would Point your
viewers to January 2020 attack by Iran
where they used ballistic missiles on
two bases in Northern Iraq and more than
a hundred Americans had traumatic brain
injuries and that was because there was
no ballistic missile defenses uh in the
area and I think Washington wants to
avoid a repeat of that horrible event
Brad bman as always we cover a lot of
material when we have you on the show we
appreciate appreci it thank you thank
you